DOCSP-39980 - GridFS (#289)
mongodb/docs-csharp: source/fundamentals/gridfs.txt

.. _csharp-gridfs:

=================
Store Large Files
=================

.. contents:: On this page
   :local:
   :backlinks: none
   :depth: 2
   :class: singlecol

.. facet::
   :name: genre
   :values: reference
 
.. meta::
   :keywords: binary large object, blob, storage, code example

Overview
--------

In this guide, you can learn how to store and retrieve large files in
MongoDB by using **GridFS**. GridFS is a specification implemented by 

> the {+driver-short+} that describes how to split files into chunks when storing them

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the {+driver-short+} that allows you to split files into chunks when storing them
```

Author: this is one of questions about technical accuracy vs. reader understanding, because it is correct that GridFS is an implemented specification, and specifications can only describe--they don't do anything themselves. BUT I get that that may be more detail than a user needs. Reworded.

and reassemble those files when retrieving them. The driver's implementation of
GridFS is an abstraction that manages the operations and organization of

> the file storage. 

Reviewer: S: consider removing this sentence - it might confuse users to differentiate between GridFS spec vs implementation

> Use GridFS if the size of your files exceeds the BSON document
> size limit of 16 MB. For more detailed information about whether GridFS is

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use GridFS if the size of any of your files exceeds the BSON document
size limit of 16 MB. For more detailed information about whether GridFS is
```

suitable for your use case, see :manual:`GridFS </core/gridfs>` in the
{+mdb-server+} manual.

How GridFS Works
----------------

GridFS organizes files in a **bucket**, a group of MongoDB collections
that contain the chunks of files and information describing them. The
bucket contains the following collections, named using the convention

> defined in the GridFS specification:

Reviewer: S: consider removing this last clause

- ``chunks``: Stores the binary file chunks
- ``files``: Stores the file metadata

> The driver creates the GridFS bucket, if it doesn't exist, when you first

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The driver creates the GridFS bucket, if it doesn't already exist, when you first
```

> write data to it. The bucket contains the preceding collections
> prefixed with the default bucket name ``fs``, unless you specify a different

Reviewer: ```suggestion
write data to it. The bucket contains the ``chunks`` and ``files`` collections
prefixed with the default bucket name ``fs``, unless you specify a different
```

name. To ensure efficient retrieval of the files and related metadata, the driver
creates an index on each collection. The driver ensures that these indexes exist
before performing read and write operations on the GridFS bucket.
	
For more information about GridFS indexes, see :manual:`GridFS Indexes
</core/gridfs/#gridfs-indexes>` in the {+mdb-server+} manual.

When using GridFS to store files, the driver splits the files into smaller
chunks, each represented by a separate document in the ``chunks`` collection.
It also creates a document in the ``files`` collection that contains
a file ID, file name, and other file metadata. You can upload the file by passing
a stream to the {+driver-short+} to consume or by creating a new stream and writing to it

> directly.

Reviewer: S: if this content is covered later in the page, consider removing it from here

Author: agreed

The following diagram shows how GridFS splits files when they are
uploaded to a bucket:

.. figure:: /includes/figures/GridFS-upload.png
   :alt: A diagram that shows how GridFS uploads a file to a bucket

When retrieving files, GridFS fetches the metadata from the ``files``
collection in the specified bucket and uses the information to reconstruct
the file from documents in the ``chunks`` collection. You can read the file
by writing its contents to an existing stream or by creating a new stream that points

> to the file.

Reviewer: S: same as above, since this content is covered in a later section consider removing

> .. _gridfs-create-bucket:

Reviewer: S: include `csharp` in all anchors

Author: i noticed these anchors don't use it, but do you know why it's a good idea to include?

Create a GridFS Bucket
----------------------

To begin using GridFS to store or retrieve files, create a new instance of the
``GridFSBucket`` class, passing in an ``IMongoDatabase`` object that represents your
database. This method accesses an existing bucket or creates
a new bucket if one does not exist.

> The following example creates a new instance of the ``GridFSBucket`` class for the
> ``db`` database:

Reviewer: S: might describe the action more aptly
```suggestion
The following example creates a new instance of the ``GridFSBucket`` class from the
``db`` database:
```

.. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: // start-create-bucket
   :end-before: // end-create-bucket
  
.. _gridfs-create-custom-bucket:

Customize the Bucket
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can customize the GridFS bucket configuration by passing an instance

> of the ``GridFSBucketOptions class`` class to 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the ``GridFSBucketOptions`` class to 
```

> the ``GridFSBucket()`` constructor. The following table describes the properties in the
> ``GridFSBucketOptions`` class:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the ``GridFSBucket()`` constructor. The following table describes the settable properties in the
``GridFSBucketOptions`` class:
```

Author: This might be a language-specific thing, but in my experience C# properties are assumed to be both gettable and settable unless otherwise specified as read-only (or, rarely, write-only)

         database's read preference.
       | **Data type**: `ReadPreference <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.ReadPreference.html>`__

   * - ``WriteConcern`` 
     - | The write concern to use for bucket operations. The default value is the 
         database's write concern.
       | **Data type**: `WriteConcern <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.WriteConcern.html>`__

The following example creates a bucket named ``"myCustomBucket"`` by passing an instance
of the ``GridFSBucketOptions`` class to the ``GridFSBucket()`` constructor:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: // start-create-custom-bucket
   :end-before: // end-create-custom-bucket

.. _gridfs-upload-files:

Upload Files
------------

You can upload files to a GridFS bucket by using the following methods:

- ``OpenUploadStreamAsync()`` or ``OpenUploadStream()``: Opens a new upload stream to which
  you can write file contents
- ``UploadFromStreamAsync()`` or ``UploadFromStream()``: Uploads the contents of an existing
  stream to a GridFS file

> The following sections describe these methods in more detail.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following sections describe how to use these methods.
```

.. _gridfs-open-upload-stream:

Write to an Upload Stream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``OpenUploadStreamAsync()`` or ``OpenUploadStream()`` method to create an upload
stream for a given file name. These methods accept the following parameters:

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: S: I think you need to add some table formatting here
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

Author: i hate formatting list-tables

   * - Parameter
     - Description
   * - ``filename``
     - | The name of the file to upload.

>        | 

Reviewer: S: remove newlines

       | **Data type**: {+string-data-type+}
   * - ``options``
     - | *Optional.* An instance of the ``GridFSUploadOptions`` class that specifies the
         configuration for the upload stream. The default value is ``null``.
       | 

>        | **Data type**: `GridFSUploadOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.GridFS.GridFSBucket.GridFSUploadOptions.html>`__

Reviewer: I; link is 404ing

Author: great catch. for some reason they didn't put the GridFSUploadOptions class in the GridFSBucket namespace

   * - ``cancellationToken``
     - | *Optional.* A token that you can use to cancel the operation.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `CancellationToken <https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.threading.cancellationtoken>`__

> The following code example demonstrates how to open an upload stream by performing the
> following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code example demonstrates how to open an upload stream by performing the
following steps:
```

> - Calls the ``OpenUploadStream()`` method to open a writable GridFS stream for a new file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Calls the ``OpenUploadStream()`` method to open a writable GridFS stream for a file
```

  named ``"my_file"``
- Calls the ``Write()`` method to write data to ``my_file``
- Calls the ``Close()`` method to close the stream that points to ``my_file`` 

Select the :guilabel:`Asynchronous` or :guilabel:`Synchronous` tab to see the corresponding
code:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: open-upload-stream-async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-upload-stream-async
         :end-before: // end-open-upload-stream-async

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: open-upload-stream-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-upload-stream
         :end-before: // end-open-upload-stream

To customize the upload stream configuration, pass an instance of the
``GridFSUploadOptions`` class to the ``OpenUploadStreamAsync()`` or ``OpenUploadStream()``
method. The ``GridFSUploadOptions`` class contains the following properties:

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: S: add formatting

   * - Property
     - Description
   * - ``BatchSize``
     - | The number of chunks to upload in each batch. The default value is ``16777216``

>          divided by the value of the following property, ``ChunkSizeBytes``. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         divided by the value of the ``ChunkSizeBytes`` property. 
```

Author: Related question: I looked into the code and verified this is how this property is calculated, but I don't love relying on magic numbers like this. Do you think we should document why this is the case? (I personally have no idea)

       | 
       | **Data type**: ``int?`` 
       

>    * - ``ChunkSizeBytes``

Author: Tech reviewer: What is the default value for this property?

>      - | The maximum size of each chunk.

Reviewer: S: add a default

Author: Can't find this in the repo. Will leave a note for the tech reviewer.

.. _gridfs-upload-from-stream:

Upload an Existing Stream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``UploadFromStreamAsync()`` or ``UploadFromStream()`` method to upload the
contents of a stream to a new GridFS file. These methods accept the following parameters:

.. list-table::

   * - Parameter
     - Description
   
   * - ``filename``
     - | The name of the file to upload.
       | 
       | **Data type**: {+string-data-type+}
   
   * - ``source``
     - | The stream from which to read the file contents.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `Stream <https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.io.stream>`__
   
   * - ``options``
     - | *Optional.* An instance of the ``GridFSUploadOptions`` class that specifies the
         configuration for the upload stream. The default value is ``null``.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `GridFSUploadOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.GridFS.GridFSBucket.GridFSUploadOptions.html>`__
   
   * - ``cancellationToken``
     - | *Optional.* A token that you can use to cancel the operation.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `CancellationToken <https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.threading.cancellationtoken>`__

> The following code example demonstrates how to open an upload stream by performing the
> following steps:

Reviewer: S: avoid double following
```suggestion
This code example demonstrates how to open an upload stream by performing the
following steps:
```

The following code example demonstrates how to download to an existing stream by
performing the following actions:

- Opens a file located at ``/path/to/output_file`` as a stream in binary write
  mode
- Retrieves the ``_id`` value of the GridFS file named ``"new_file"``
- Calls the ``DownloadToStream()`` method and passes the ``_id`` value to download
  the contents of ``"new_file"`` to a stream

Select the :guilabel:`Asynchronous` or :guilabel:`Synchronous` tab to see the corresponding
code.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: download-to-stream-async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-download-to-stream-async
         :end-before: // end-download-to-stream-async

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: download-to-stream-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-download-to-stream
         :end-before: // end-download-to-stream

.. _gridfs-retrieve-file-info:

Retrieve File Information

> -------------------------

Reviewer: S: consider renaming to "Read Files" or "Retrieve Files"

       | 
       | **Data type**: ``FilterDefinition<GridFSFileInfo>``. For more information, see
         the API documentation for the
         `Find() <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.GridFS.GridFSBucket.Find.html>`__
         method.

   * - ``source``
     - | The stream from which to read the file contents.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `Stream <https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.io.stream>`__

   * - ``options``
     - | *Optional.* An instance of the ``GridFSFindOptions`` class that specifies the
         configuration for the find operation. The default value is ``null``.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `GridFSFindOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.GridFS.GridFSFindOptions.html>`__

   * - ``cancellationToken``
     - | *Optional.* A token that you can use to cancel the operation.
       | 
       | **Data type**: `CancellationToken <https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.threading.cancellationtoken>`__

The following code example shows how to retrieve and print file metadata
from files in a GridFS bucket. The ``Find()`` method returns an
``IAsyncCursor<GridFSFileInfo>`` instance from

> which you can access the results.It uses a ``foreach`` loop to iterate through

Reviewer: ```suggestion
which you can access the results. It uses a ``foreach`` loop to iterate through
```

         .. output::
            :visible: false

            { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "length" : 13, "chunkSize" : 261120, "uploadDate" :
            { "$date" : ... }, "filename" : "new_file" }
            { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "length" : 50, "chunkSize" : 1048576, "uploadDate" :
            { "$date" : ... }, "filename" : "my_file" }

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: find-sync

      .. io-code-block::
         :copyable:

         .. input:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
            :start-after: // start-find
            :end-before: // end-find
            :language: csharp
            :dedent:

         .. output::
            :visible: false

            { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "length" : 13, "chunkSize" : 261120, "uploadDate" :
            { "$date" : ... }, "filename" : "new_file" }
            { "_id" : { "$oid" : "..." }, "length" : 50, "chunkSize" : 1048576, "uploadDate" :
            { "$date" : ... }, "filename" : "my_file" }

To customize the find operation, pass an instance of the
``GridFSFindOptions`` class to the ``FindAsync()`` or ``Find()`` method. The
``GridFSFindOptions`` class contains the following properties:

> .. list-table::

Reviewer: S: formatting

   * - Property
     - Description
   
   * - ``Sort``
     - | The sort order of the results. If you don't specify a sort order, the
         method returns the results in the order in which they were inserted.
       | 
       | **Data type**: ``SortDefinition<GridFSFileInfo>``. For more information, see
         the API documentation for the
         `Sort <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.GridFS.GridFSFindOptions.Sort.html>`__ property.

.. _gridfs-delete-files:

Delete Files
------------

To delete files from a GridFS bucket, call the ``DeleteAsync()`` or ``Delete()`` method

> on your ``GridFSBucket`` instance. This method removes a file's collection document and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on your ``GridFSBucket`` instance. This method removes a file's metadata document and
```

Author: good call on metadata, but the diagram earlier in the page and [method code](https://github.com/mongodb/mongo-csharp-driver/blob/6a33c2748cc702d8f70242d0a3b8c270e2ae05fe/src/MongoDB.Driver/GridFS/GridFSBucket.cs) lead me to believe it's deleting the whole `files` collection. do you know whether that collection always contains just one document?

   * - ``ReadPreference`` 
     - The read preference to use for bucket operations. The default value is the 
       database's read preference.
       
       **Data type**: `ReadPreference <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.ReadPreference.html>`__

   * - ``WriteConcern`` 
     - The write concern to use for bucket operations. The default value is the 
       database's write concern.
       
       **Data type**: `WriteConcern <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.WriteConcern.html>`__

The following example creates a bucket named ``"myCustomBucket"`` by passing an instance
of the ``GridFSBucketOptions`` class to the ``GridFSBucket()`` constructor:

.. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
   :language: csharp
   :dedent:
   :start-after: // start-create-custom-bucket
   :end-before: // end-create-custom-bucket

.. _csharp-gridfs-upload-files:

Upload Files
------------

You can upload files to a GridFS bucket by using the following methods:

- ``OpenUploadStreamAsync()`` or ``OpenUploadStream()``: Opens a new upload stream to which
  you can write file contents

> - ``UploadFromStreamAsync()`` or ``UploadFromStream()``: Uploads the contents of an existing

Author: That's good to know; I assumed most people would use the async version when given the choice. 

Update here and created a ticket to update the rest of the C# docs.

> - ``UploadFromStreamAsync()`` or ``UploadFromStream()``: Uploads the contents of an existing

Reviewer 2: Async programming is more difficult than sync programming. Someone would only use async programming if they had to.

code:

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: open-upload-stream-async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-upload-stream-async
         :end-before: // end-open-upload-stream-async

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: open-upload-stream-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-upload-stream
         :end-before: // end-open-upload-stream

To customize the upload stream configuration, pass an instance of the
``GridFSUploadOptions`` class to the ``OpenUploadStreamAsync()`` or ``OpenUploadStream()``
method. The ``GridFSUploadOptions`` class contains the following properties:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Property
     - Description
   * - ``BatchSize``
     - The number of chunks to upload in each batch. The default value is ``16777216``
       divided by the value of the ``ChunkSizeBytes`` property. 
        
       **Data type**: ``int?`` 
       
   * - ``ChunkSizeBytes``

>      - The maximum size of each chunk.

Reviewer 2: maximum?

All chunks except the last one will be exactly this size. Only the last one will be smaller.

Author: So it's technically true that this is the maximum size, but that's not the most helpful information to a user!

Reviewer 2: I would not call this the maximum size. It is THE size.

Talking about the maximum implies to me that the chunk size is variable, and it's not. All the chunks (except the last one) are the SAME size.

The following code example demonstrates how to download to an existing stream by
performing the following actions:

- Opens a file located at ``/path/to/output_file`` as a stream in binary write
  mode
- Retrieves the ``_id`` value of the GridFS file named ``"new_file"``
- Calls the ``DownloadToStream()`` method and passes the ``_id`` value to download
  the contents of ``"new_file"`` to a stream

Select the :guilabel:`Asynchronous` or :guilabel:`Synchronous` tab to see the corresponding
code.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: download-to-stream-async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-download-to-stream-async
         :end-before: // end-download-to-stream-async

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: download-to-stream-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-download-to-stream
         :end-before: // end-download-to-stream

.. _csharp-gridfs-retrieve-file-info:

> Retrieve Files 

Reviewer 2: "Retrieve" sounds like the wrong word here.

I think it should be "Find".

Retrieving is when you actually download the contents of the files.

Reviewer 2: Are you going to change this?

       The default value is ``"fs"``.
       
       **Data type**: {+string-data-type+} 

   * - ``ChunkSizeBytes`` 
     - The chunk size that GridFS splits files into. The default value is ``261120``.
       
       **Data type**: {+int-data-type+}

   * - ``ReadConcern`` 
     - The read concern to use for bucket operations. The default value is the 
       database's read concern.
       
       **Data type**: `ReadConcern <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.ReadConcern.html>`__

   * - ``ReadPreference`` 
     - The read preference to use for bucket operations. The default value is the 
       database's read preference.
       
       **Data type**: `ReadPreference <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.ReadPreference.html>`__

   * - ``WriteConcern`` 
     - The write concern to use for bucket operations. The default value is the 
       database's write concern.
       
       **Data type**: `WriteConcern <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.WriteConcern.html>`__

The following example creates a bucket named ``"myCustomBucket"`` by passing an instance
of the ``GridFSBucketOptions`` class to the ``GridFSBucket()`` constructor:

> 

Reviewer: S; remove extra line

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: open-upload-stream-with-options-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-upload-stream-with-options
         :end-before: // end-open-upload-stream-with-options

.. _csharp-gridfs-upload-from-stream:

Upload an Existing Stream
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Use the ``UploadFromStreamAsync()`` or ``UploadFromStream()`` method to upload the
contents of a stream to a new GridFS file. These methods accept the following parameters:

.. list-table::
   :widths: 30 70
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Parameter
     - Description
   
   * - ``filename``
     - The name of the file to upload.
        
       **Data type**: {+string-data-type+}

   * - ``source``
     - The stream from which to read the file contents.
        
       **Data type**: `Stream <https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/api/system.io.stream>`__

   * - ``options``
     - *Optional.* An instance of the ``GridFSUploadOptions`` class that specifies the
       configuration for the upload stream. The default value is ``null``.
        

>        **Data type**: `GridFSUploadOptions <{+new-api-root+}/MongoDB.Driver/MongoDB.Driver.GridFS.GridFSBucket.GridFSUploadOptions.html>`__

Reviewer: I: broken links

following steps:

- Retrieves the ``_id`` value of the GridFS file named ``"new_file"``
- Calls the ``OpenDownloadStream()`` method and passes the ``_id`` value to open the
  file as a readable GridFS stream
- Creates a ``buffer`` vector to store the file contents
- Calls the ``Read()`` method to read the file contents from the ``downloader``
  stream into the vector

Select the :guilabel:`Asynchronous` or :guilabel:`Synchronous` tab to see the corresponding
code.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: open-download-stream-async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-download-stream-async
         :end-before: // end-open-download-stream-async

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: open-download-stream-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-open-download-stream
         :end-before: // end-open-download-stream

To customize the download stream configuration, pass an instance of the
``GridFSDownloadOptions`` class to the ``OpenDownloadStream()`` method. The

> ``GridFSDownloadOptions`` class contains the following properties:

Reviewer: S; change to property if its one row
```suggestion
``GridFSDownloadOptions`` class contains the following property:
```

The following code example demonstrates how to download to an existing stream by
performing the following actions:

- Opens a file located at ``/path/to/output_file`` as a stream in binary write
  mode
- Retrieves the ``_id`` value of the GridFS file named ``"new_file"``
- Calls the ``DownloadToStream()`` method and passes the ``_id`` value to download
  the contents of ``"new_file"`` to a stream

Select the :guilabel:`Synchronous` or :guilabel:`Asynchronous` tab to see the corresponding
code.

.. tabs::

   .. tab:: Synchronous
      :tabid: download-to-stream-sync

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-download-to-stream
         :end-before: // end-download-to-stream

   .. tab:: Asynchronous
      :tabid: download-to-stream-async

      .. literalinclude:: /includes/code-examples/GridFS.cs
         :language: csharp
         :dedent:
         :start-after: // start-download-to-stream-async
         :end-before: // end-download-to-stream-async

.. _csharp-gridfs-retrieve-file-info:

Find Files 
----------

> To retrieve files from a GridFS bucket, call the ``Find()`` or ``FindAsync()`` method

Reviewer 2: Should you change "retrieve" to "find" here also?
